//Moritz l'a donné en papier, mais pas en numérique



Refractoriness enhances temporal coding by auditory nerve fibers.

*Refractoriness enhances temporal coding by auditory nerve fibers.*

J Neurosci. 2013 May 1;33(18):7681-90

Authors: Avissar M, Wittig JH, Saunders JC, Parsons TD

Abstract
A universal property of spiking neurons is refractoriness, a transient
decrease in discharge probability immediately following an action
potential (spike). The refractory period lasts only one to a few
milliseconds, but has the potential to affect temporal coding of
acoustic stimuli by auditory neurons, which are capable of
submillisecond spike-time precision. Here this possibility was
investigated systematically by recording spike times from chicken
auditory nerve fibers in vivo while stimulating with repeated pure tones
at characteristic frequency. Refractory periods were tightly
distributed, with a mean of 1.58 ms. A statistical model was developed
to recapitulate each fiber's responses and then used to predict the
effect of removing the refractory period on a cell-by-cell basis for two
largely independent facets of temporal coding: faithful entrainment of
interspike intervals to the stimulus frequency and precise
synchronization of spike times to the stimulus phase. The ratio of the
refractory period to the stimulus period predicted the impact of
refractoriness on entrainment and synchronization. For ratios less than
~0.9, refractoriness enhanced entrainment and this enhancement was often
accompanied by an increase in spike-time precision. At higher ratios,
little or no change in entrainment or synchronization was observed.
Given the tight distribution of refractory periods, the ability of
refractoriness to improve temporal coding is restricted to neurons
responding to low-frequency stimuli. Enhanced encoding of low
frequencies likely affects sound localization and pitch perception in
the auditory system, as well as perception in nonauditory sensory
modalities, because all spiking neurons exhibit refractoriness.

PMID: 23637161 [PubMed - in process]